\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\usepackage[margin=1.0in]{geometry}
\usepackage{indentfirst}

\begin{document}

\noindent Kaitlin Poskaitis\\
September 19, 2013
\begin{center}
\section*{\bf Astronomerâ€™s Toolkit: Light, Telescopes, and Relativity}
\end{center}

Astronomers have a very strong and varied arsenal of tools at their disposal to
study the cosmos.  Perhaps one of their strongest and most useful tools for this
is the telescope, which allows astronomers to study the light that celestial
bodies emits.  One may be able to imagine that telescopes are very useful tools
for a variety of reasons, but they are not the only tool astronomers can utilize
to help them understand celestial phenomena.  There is another set of tools
astronomers use that does not include physical instruments, rather, previous
theories.  Perhaps one of the most influential theories ever created in the
realm of physics is Einstein's theory of special and general relativity.  By
using both physical tools such as telescopes, along with intellectual tools such
as Einstein's theories, astronomers can better understand the universe.

% telescope basic info here %

It is evident that telescopes are very powerful tools for studying our universe;
however, their results can vary greatly based on the location that they are
used.  Telescopes can be used on Earth or in space, and their are certain
advantages and disadvantages to each option.  If a telescope is to be used on
Earth, it must be used in a dry, dark, and high location (Lecture 9/17).  This
minimizes the effects of light pollution and atmospheric distortion.  Even so,
the atmosphere greatly limits the power of telescopes on Earth, as it not only
distorts light but also prevents certain wavelengths of light from ever reaching
the ground.  Even so, on-Earth telescopes are still much more common as they are
less expensive and much easier to maintain and upgrade.  Telescopes in space
have the advantage of being able to view celestial bodies more clearly, but lack
the ease of maintenance which often deters people from building them.

There have been several famous space telescopes, perhaps the most well-known
being the Hubble Space Telescope.  It is a 2.4m telescope that was launched by
NASA in 1990 (Lecture, 9/17).  It specialized in optical, infrared, and ultraviolet
observations.  Chandra was another important space telescope, launched by NASA
in 1999.  It specialized in X-ray imaging and spectroscopy.  Lastly,  the
Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe was launched by NASA in 2011 and
specialized in studying the cosmic microwave background (Lecture, 9/17).

\end{document}
